Ability: Accelerate
Scene x2 – Free Action
Effect: The user may use a damaging Move to which
they add STAB as a Priority Move. If the Move hits,
the user adds half their Speed Stat to the Damage
Roll. If the Move already had Priority, the attack
gains a +4 Bonus to Accuracy.
Replaces: Maelstrom Pulse, Leaf Rush, & Gale Wings
Ability: Frisk
Static
Effect: The user gains a +2 Bonus to all Accuracy
Rolls against adjacent targets.
Ability: Gale Wings
Static
Effect: Connection – Quick Attack. The user may use
Quick Attack as a Flying-Type Move.
Ability: Unaware
Static
Effect: Whenever the user attacks, they ignore all
positive Combat Stages to the target's Defense,
Special Defense, and Speed.
Ability: Anchored
Static
Effect: Dhelmise has an Anchor token on the field,
which occupies one square as if it is Medium sized
but is otherwise ignored for cover and targeting.
Dhelmise cannot move or be moved more than 3
meters away from its Anchor, willingly or otherwise.
The Anchor token itself cannot be pushed, pulled, or
moved against Dhelmise's will in any way. Dhelmise
may shift their Anchor Token as a Swift Action,
moving it to any open space within 3 meters of itself.
Bonus: When the user Shifts the Anchor, it may
immediately afterwards originate an attack from its
Anchor if it has the appropriate action available,
giving that attack the following properties- the
attack's range changes to "Melee, 1 Target", the
attack deals +2d6 damage, and the attack's Class
changes to Physical if it wasn't already.
Ability: Battery
Scene x2 – Swift Action
Target: An Adjacent Ally
Effect: The target's next Special Attack deals +2d6+4
damage. If that attack is Electric-Typed, it deals
+3d6+6 more damage instead.
Ability: Beast Boost
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user's Damaging Attack causes an
opponent to Faint
Effect: The user receives +1 Combat Stage in their
highest non-HP stat.
Ability: Berserk
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user's drops to half HP or below for the
first time in an encounter, or becomes Enraged
Effect: The user receives +1 Special Attack Combat
Stage.
Ability: Chemical Romance
Static
Effect: Connection – Sweet Scent. Whenever the
user hits a male target with Poison Gas, Smog, Sweet
Scent, Toxic, or Venom Drench, that target becomes
Infatuated with the user.
Ability: Comatose
At-Will – Shift Action
Effect: The user falls Asleep, and regains a Tick of Hit
Points.
Bonus: The user may act normally while Asleep and
ignores all other penalties from being Asleep. While
Asleep, the user does not make Save Checks to wake
up, and wakes up from being hit only if they want to.
Ability: Corrosion
Static
Effect: The user's Poison-Type attacks are resisted
one step less, and deal damage to Immune targets as
if they were doubly resisted. The user may Poison
and Badly Poison Steel and Poison-Type Pokémon.
Ability: Dancer
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: Someone within 10 meters uses a Status-
Class Dance Move
Effect: The user may immediately use the triggering
Move as a Free Action.
Ability: Dazzling
Scene x2 – Swift Action
Target: An Adjacent Foe
Effect: For the rest of the Scene, the target's
Initiative is lowered by 10 and cannot use Priority
Moves.
Bonus: Interrupt Moves may not be declared in
response to the user's actions.
Ability: Disguise
Daily – Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Damaging Move.
Effect: The triggering attack instead misses and has
no effect. The user then gains +1 CS in a Stat of their
choice. Defensive.
Ability: Electric Surge
Scene x3 – Swift Action
Effect: The Field becomes Electrified, as if affected
by the Move Electric Terrain, for one full round.
Ability: Emergency Exit
Scene – Free Action
Effect: When the user's Hit Points drop below half
their maximum, their trainer may immediately recall
the user and send out another Pokémon as a Free
Action. If the user hasn't taken their turn yet, their
replacement may act this round. Defensive.
Bonus: The user is immune to being Trapped.
Ability: Fluffy
Static
Effect: The user resists damaging Melee attacks one
step further, but resists Fire-Type attacks one step
less. Defensive.
Ability: Full Metal Body
Static
Effect: The user's Combat Stages may not be
lowered by the effect of foes' Features, Abilities, or
Moves. Status Afflictions may still alter their Combat
Stages. Defensive.
Ability: Galvanize
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user uses a Normal-Type damaging
Move
Effect: The Move is changed to be Electric-Type.
Ability: Glisten
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Fairy-Type attacks.
Defensive.
Bonus: If the user is hit by a damaging Fairy-Type
attack, they receive +1 Defense or Special Defense
Combat Stages.
Ability: Grassy Surge
Scene x3 – Swift Action
Effect: The Field becomes Grassy, as if affected by
the Move Grassy Terrain, for one full round.
Ability: Handyman
Static
Effect: The user may hold two Held Items at once.
Whenever an Ability or Move affects the user's Held
Items, you may choose which one is affected.
Ability: Horde Break
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user changes from School Form to Solo
Form
Effect: The user is cured of all Status Conditions.
Ability: Innards Out
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Damaging Attack
Effect: The user resists the triggering attack one step
further. After the attack is resolved, a foe within 2
meters loses Hit Points equal to twice the amount of
Hit Points lost by the user from the triggering attack,
even if the triggering attack caused the user to Faint.
Ability: Liquid Voice
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user uses a Move with the Sonic
keyword
Effect: The triggering move loses the Sonic keyword,
but gains the Friendly keyword and becomes Water
Typed. If the Move was a Status Class Move, you
may treat it as a Special Move with DB1.
Ability: Long Reach
Static
Effect: The user may use damaging attacks as if they
had a range of "8, 1 Target" instead of their usual
range.
Ability: Merciless
Static
Effect: If the user hits a poisoned target with a
damaging attack, it automatically becomes a Critical
Hit.
Ability: Misty Surge
Scene x3 – Swift Action
Effect: The Field becomes Misty, as if affected by the
Move Misty Terrain, for one full round.
Ability: Mud Shield
Scene – Swift Action
Effect: The user gains two ticks worth of Temporary
Hit Points.
Bonus: When standing on any muddy or dirty terrain
that is either Slow or Rough Terrain, the user gains
+5 Damage Reduction. Defensive.
Ability: Neuroforce
Static
Effect: Whenever you deal Super-Effective Damage
to a target, that target treats your Damage Roll as it
were increased by +10.
Ability: Power Construct
Daily – Swift Action
Special: The user can only use Power Construct while
below 50% HP
Effect: The user changes to Complete Forme until
the end of the Scene, and gains Temporary Hit Points
equal to half of the maximum hit points that
Complete Forme would have. The user cannot gain
Temporary Hit Points from other sources while in
Complete Forme.
Special: The user still uses the HP total and HP
Maximum of the Forme that it was in (10% or 50%
Forme) before entering Complete Forme. Both
Formes must still follow BSR.
Ability: Power of Alchemy
Scene – Free Action
Target: A Trainer or Pokémon within 10 meters
Effect: The Pokémon gains an Ability known by the
Target for the remainder of the encounter, or until it
is Fainted.
Ability: Prism Armor
Static
Effect: The user gains +5 Damage Reduction against
Super Effective-Damage. Defensive.
Ability: Psychic Surge
Scene x3 – Swift Action
Effect: The Field becomes Weird, as if affected by
the Move Psychic Terrain, for one full round.
Ability: Queenly Majesty
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: An adjacent foe uses a Priority Move or an
Interrupt action
Effect: Connection – Stomp. The user may attack the
triggering foe with Stomp as a Free Action Interrupt.
Bonus: The user cannot be targeted by Interrupt
Moves and Interrupts may not be declared in
response to the user's actions.
Ability: Radiant Beam
Static
Effect: The user may use damaging Grass-Type
attacks as if they had a range of "Line 4" instead of
their usual range.
Ability: Receiver
Special – Free Action
Effect: Each effect below may be used once per
scene when triggered.
1. When an ally faints, the user selects one of
their Abilities. The user gains that Ability
until the end of the encounter.
2. When the user faints, they may grant use of
one of their Basic Abilities to an ally on the
field for the rest of the encounter.
Ability: Revelation
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: Someone within 10 meters uses a Damaging
Dance Move
Effect: The user may immediately use the triggering
Move as a Standard Action interrupt.
Bonus: Whenever the user uses a Dance Move, they
gain +2 to Accuracy Rolls until the end of their next
turn.
Ability: RKS System
Scene – Free Action
Effect: If the user is hit by a damaging attack, they
may calculate damage as if they were Normal-Type
instead. If they were already Normal-Type, they
instead resist the damage one step further.
Bonus: The user's Type changes to match the Type
of their held Memory Disc.
Ability: Schooling
Daily – Free Action
Effect: The user changes to Schooling Forme, and
gains Temporary Hit Points equal to half of its own
maximum Hit Points. The user cannot gain
Temporary Hit Points from other sources while in
Schooling Forme. When the user is below half
Maximum HP and has no Temporary Hit Points left,
they change back into Solo Forme.
Bonus: The user has two sets of base stats; Solo and
Schooling. The HP of both forms must be the same.
Ability: Shadow Shield
Static
Effect: While at full Hit Points, the user resists all
damage one step further. Defensive.
Ability: Shields Down
Static
Effect: The user has two sets of base stats; Meteor
and Core. The HP of both forms must be the same.
When the user is in Meteor Forme and are reduced
to half Maximum HP or lower, they change to Core
Forme. The user returns to Meteor Forme while
outside of combat if above half Maximum HP.
Ability: Slush Rush
Static
Effect: While in Hailing Weather or under half
maximum Hit Points, the user's Initiative is doubled.
Ability: Soul Heart
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: A combatant in the encounter Faints
Effect: The user receives +2 Special Attack Combat
Stages and gains a tick of Temporary Hit Points.
Ability: Stakeout
Static
Effect: The user gains a +2d6+4 bonus on damage
rolls against foes that were released from a Pokéball
or entered the encounter since the user's last turn.
Ability: Stamina
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Damaging Attack
Effect: The user receives +1 Defense Combat Stage.
Defensive.
Ability: Steelworker
Scene – Free Action
Trigger: The user takes damage while adjacent to its
Anchor
Effect: The user calculates damage as if it was only
Steel-Typed.
Bonus: The user gains STAB on Steel-Type Moves
that originate from its Anchor.
Ability: Surge Surfer
Static
Effect: On Electric Terrain or while under half
maximum Hit Points, the user's Initiative is doubled.
Ability: Tangling Hair
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: The attacker receives -1 Speed Combat Stage
and is Slowed until the end of its next turn.
Ability: Triage
Static
Effect: The user's moves with the Healing keyword
may be used as Priority moves.
Ability: Water Bubble
Static
Effect: The user resists Fire-Type attacks one step
further, is immune to being Burned, and may always
act as though in Rainy Weather. Defensive.
Bonus: The user may attack with Water-Type Moves
as if they had a range of “Melee, 1 target”. If they
do, that Move's Class is changed to Physical and it
deals +1d6+2 damage.
Ability: Water Compaction
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Water Type Move
Effect: The user receives +2 Defense Combat Stages.
Defensive.
Ability: Wily
Static
Effect: The user's X-target Status Class Moves may
target an additional target within range.