Ability: Klutz
Scene – Free Action
Trigger: The user hits with a Melee Attack
Effect: Choose one of the target's Held Items or
Accessory Slot Items. It is knocked to the ground.
Bonus: The Pokémon ignores the effects of all held
Items in its possession. The user may drop Held
Items At-Will as a Free Action during their turn, even
if they have Status Afflictions that prevent them
from taking actions.
Ability: Minus
Scene x2 – Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: A foe within 10m has Combat Stages lowered
Effect: The target loses an additional Combat Stage in
one stat lowered by the triggering effect.
Ability: Plus
Scene x2 – Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: An ally within 10m has Combat Stages raised
Effect: The target gains an additional Combat Stage in
one stat raised by the triggering effect.
Ability: Ball Fetch
Scene – Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: A Pokémon is Released onto the battlefield
Effect: The user may move up to their speed as a
Free Action. They must end this movement closer to
the triggering Pokémon.
Ability: Chilling Neigh
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user causes a foe to Faint with a
damaging attack
Effect: The user's Attack is raised by 1 Combat Stage.
In addition, all foes within 3m of the user take a -2
penalty to evasion for one full round.
Ability: Cotton Down
Scene – Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is hit by an attack
Effect: All Pokémon in a Burst 1 around the user
have their speed lowered by 1 CS, and are Slowed
for one full round.
Ability: Curious Medicine
Scene – Swift Action
Effect: All allies within 2m of the user have their CS
reset to their default values.
Special: The user may instead trigger this as a Free
Action Reaction when entering the field.
Ability: Dauntless Shield
Static
Effect: The user's default Defense Combat Stages are
increased by +1.
Ability: Dragon's Maw
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: The user hits with a damaging Dragon-Type
Move
Effect: One target hit by the attack becomes one
stage more vulnerable to the attack (applied after all
other modifiers). Immune targets are treated as
initially double-resistant for the purposes of this
Ability, and may be damaged normally.
Ability: Flavorful Aroma
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user uses Aromatic Mist
Effect: Connection – Aromatic Mist. All allies
affected by Aromatic Mist gain +1 to Accuracy Rolls
and +5 to Damage Rolls for one full round.
Ability: Gorilla Tactics
Scene – Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses a Move
Effect: The user gains a +10 bonus to damage rolls
until the end of the Scene, including on the
triggering Move. However, until the end of the
Scene, they may only use Moves that they have
already used in this Scene before triggering this
Ability (the triggering Move is included in those
usable).
Ability: Grim Neigh
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: The user causes a foe to Faint with a
damaging attack
Effect: The user's Special Attack is raised by 1
Combat Stage. In addition, all foes within 3m of the
user take a -2 penalty to Accuracy for one full round.
Ability: Gulp Missile
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: The user uses Stockpile, Surf, or Dive
Effect: Connection – Stockpile. The next time the
user is damaged, it rolls an AC 4 Physical Attack
against the attacker, even if the user Faints. On a hit,
the target loses 2 ticks of HP. In addition, if the hit
roll was successful, on an even roll the target is
Paralyzed; on an odd roll, the target instead loses 1
Defense CS.
Ability: Hunger Switch
Static
Effect: At the beginning of each of the user's turns,
the user must choose whether it's in Full Belly Mode
or Hangry Mode until the beginning of its next turn.
In Full Belly Mode, it gains a +2 bonus to Accuracy. In
Hangry Mode, it gains a +5 Bonus to Damage Rolls.
Ability: Ice Face
Static
Effect: The user begins the battle with two ticks of
temporary hit points. As a Standard Action in Hail,
they may gain two ticks of temporary hit points. The
user is immune to damage from Hail. While the user
has Temporary Hit Points from this Feature, it is in
Ice Face form, otherwise it is in Noice Face form.
Ability: Ice Scales
Static
Effect: The user resists Special Moves one step
further. Defensive.
Ability: Intrepid Sword
Static
Effect: The user's default Attack Combat Stages are
increased by +1.
Ability: Mirror Armor
At-Will – Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: A foe's Move or Ability directly lowers the
user's CS (including Effect Ranges, but not including
things like Status)
Effect: The user's CS are instead not lowered, and
the triggering foe's CS in the affected stats are
instead lowered the same amount the user's would
have been.
Ability: Missile Launch
Scene x2 – Standard Action
Effect: Connection – Dragon Darts. The user places
two Dreepy Tokens within 6m. The user may move
all Dreepy Tokens it controls 4m as a Swift Action. A
Dreepy Token can freely enter other creatures'
squares as part of this movement, which destroys
the token, and causes the creature to suffer an AC2
DB 5 Physical Dragon-Type attack as if from the user
of Missile Launch.
Dreepy Tokens may be targeted. They have the same
evasions as the user, and any damage destroys them
(including from Smite damage).
Ability: Neutralizing Gas
Static
Effect: Abilities may not be Triggered in a burst 1
around the user, and Defensive abilities do not
function in that area (the user is unaffected by this).
If the user uses Poison Gas, Smog, Clear Smog, or
Strange Steam, targets hit by those Moves may not
trigger Abilities or benefit from Defensive Abilities
for one full round.
Ability: Pastel Veil
Static
Effect: The user and allies within 3 meters cannot be
Poisoned or Badly Poisoned. Defensive
Ability: Perish Body
Daily – Standard Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is hit with a Melee attack
Effect: The triggering creature and the user each
receive a Perish Count of 3. At the beginning of each
of the target's turns, their Perish count is lowered by
1. Once a Perish Count reaches 0, set the Pokémon's
Hit Points to 0. A Perish Count disappears if a target
returns to their Poké Ball, Takes a Breather, or is
knocked out. Perish Body never causes Massive
Damage. Defensive.
Ability: Power Spot
Static
Effect: Allies within 2m of the user gain a +5 bonus
to damage rolls.
Ability: Propeller Tail
Scene – Swift Action
Effect: The user may make a Sprint Maneuver as a
Free Action.
Bonus: The user may not be Intercepted, nor may
any Abilities, Moves, or Features be activated to
change the user's target. Any of those existing
effects (such as Follow Me) fail.
Ability: Punk Rock
Static
Effect: The user gains +2 DB to moves that have the
Sonic keyword.
Bonus: The user resists moves with the Sonic
keyword one step further. Defensive.
Ability: Quick Draw
Scene – Free Action, Interrupt
Trigger: A foe uses a Move, and the user has not
acted this round
Effect: The user immediately uses a Move on the
triggering foe as a Standard Action Interrupt (this
Move must still obey Frequency and Range). If this
Move hits, the foe also gains a -2 penalty to their
attack roll for the triggering attack, unless the foe
cannot Flinch.
Bonus: The user cannot be Flinched. Defensive.
Ability: Ripen
Static
Effect: Any numeric benefits of Berry Food Buffs the
user trades in are doubled. (Oran Berries restore 10
HP, Liechi increases Attack by +2 CS, Jaboca causes ¼
Hit Point loss, Occa Weakens a Move 2 stages, etc.).
This does not increase the number of statuses cured,
Scene Moves restored, stats lowered by
suppressants, or allow triggering at double the usual
HP one must be at.
Ability: Sand Spit
Scene – Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is damaged by an attack from a foe
within 2m
Effect: Connection – Sand Attack. The user attacks
the triggering foe with Sand Attack as a Free Action.
Ability: Screen Cleaner
Daily – Standard Action
Effect: All Blessings on the field, both ally and
enemy, are removed.
Bonus: The user is immune to non-Blocking Hazards,
and destroys them when moving over them.
Blocking Hazards are treated instead as Slow Terrain
for the purposes of movement only (the user may
still not target through them), and are destroyed if
moved through.
Ability: Splendorous Rider
Scene x2 – Swift Action
Effect: The user may pick a Move from their Mount's
known Moves that they do not already know. For the
rest of the user's Turn, they may use that Move as
though it was one of their own Moves. Note that this
does not remove any frequency limitations – a Daily
Move that the Mount knows may not be used more
than once.
This Ability may not be copied or transferred.
Ability: Stalwart
Scene – Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user receives Massive Damage
Effect: The user's Attack, Special Attack, Defense,
and Special Defense all increase by 1 CS.
Bonus: The user may not be Intercepted, nor may
any Abilities, Moves, or Features be activated to
change the user's target. Any of those existing
effects (such as Follow Me) fail.
Ability: Steam Engine
Scene x2 – Swift Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging Fire-Type or
Water-Type Move, or begins their turn in Rainy
Weather
Effect: Connection – Smokescreen. The user may use
Smokescreen as a Free Action, ignoring frequency,
centered on the user.
Ability: Transistor
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: The user hits with a damaging Electric-Type
Move
Effect: One target hit by the attack becomes one
stage more vulnerable to the attack (applied after all
other modifiers). Immune targets are treated as
initially double-resistant for the purposes of this
Ability, and may be damaged normally.
Ability: Unseen Fist
Static
Effect: Reactions, Interrupts, and Blessings may not
be activated in response to the user's Melee Attacks.
Ability: Wandering Spirit
Scene – Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee attack
Effect: The user exchanges Wandering Spirit with a
random Ability of the opposing Pokémon, as per the
Move Skill Swap.
Ability: Zen Snowed
Scene – Swift Action
Effect: The user changes into Zen Mode forme for
the rest of the Scene, and may use the Moves “Ice
Punch” and “Fire Punch” as if they were on its Move
List.
Ability: Mimicry
Scene – Free Action
Effect: The user changes their Type to match the
field. Pick one type from the following table. If two
or more rows are relevant (such as because of
Weather), pick one.
Field/Weather Type
Beach - Ground or Water,
Cave - Rock or Dark,
Desert - Ground or Rock,
Forest - Grass,
Fresh Water / Ocean - Water,
Grassland - Normal or Grass,
Marsh - Water or Poison,
Mountain - Rock or Ground,
Rainforest - Grass or Poison,
Taiga - Ice or Grass,
Tundra - Ice,
Urban - Normal or Steel,
Sunny - Fire,
Rainy - Water,
Hailing - Ice,
Sandstorming - Rock
Your GM may provide additional options should they
choose (for instance, an Ethereal Forest may provide
Psychic and Fairy options.)
Note: This table may be used for Camouflage, too.